---
title: "Evaluating the Importance of Conformers for Understanding the Vacuum-Ultraviolet Spectra of Oxiranes: Experiment and Theory"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-12-06-evaluating-importance
# excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
date: 2024-12-06
venue: 'The Journal of Physical Chemistry A'
# slidesurl: 'https://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/acs.jpca.4c04391'
bibtexurl: 'https://academicpages.github.io/files/bibtex2.bib'
citation: 'Beck, I. T.; Mitchell, E. C.; Webb Hill, A.; Turney, J. M.; Rotavera, B.; Schaefer III, H. F. Evaluating the Importance of Conformers for Understanding the Vacuum-Ultraviolet Spectra of Oxiranes: Experiment and Theory <em>Journal of Physical Chemistry A</em> <strong>2024</strong>, 128(50), 10906-10920'
---
Vacuum-ultraviolet (VUV) absorption spectroscopy enables electronic transitions that offer the unambiguous identification of molecules. As target molecules become more complex, multifunctional species present a great challenge to both experimental and computational spectroscopy. This research reports both experimental and theoretical studies of oxiranes. Computationally, the nuclear ensemble approach has been used to accurately predict experimental spectra for a variety of molecules. However, this approach incurs great computational cost, as ensembles generally consist of thousands of geometries. The present study aims to drastically reduce the ensemble by evaluating the significance of the conformers to the predicted spectra. This approach was applied to 11 substituted oxiranes using the Conformer Rotamer Ensemble Sampling Tool (CREST) of Grimme to generate an ensemble of unique conformers determined by their Boltzmann populations. Five TD-DFT functionals (BMK, CAM-B3LYP, M06-2X, MN15, ωB97X-D) and EOM-CCSD were used to simulate the spectrum of each substituted oxirane ensemble. Computed spectra were then compared to the experiment using both qualitative and quantitative metrics. Based on these metrics, it was observed that certain conformers may not be necessary to characterize this set of oxiranes despite the temperature (323 K) of the experiment. A single conformer can then be used with TD-DFT and EOM-CCSD to replicate the experimental spectra of these medium-sized combustion species.